---
layout: post-no-feature
title: A Datascience Heiress
description: "A short story of what could be"
categories: shortstory
permalink: /2016/10/16/2016-10-16-Heiress.html
comments: true
published: true
date: 2016-10-16
---

She stared down at her notes and then looked up at the crowd. Though not a stranger to crowds and the limelight, this was different. This was pressure; true pressure that she had earned. Amongst the onlookers, there were a few friends, but mostly there were news reporters. She thought to herself, "hmph, well I had always wanted attention", smiling. As she started to rifle through her notecards, flashes of her past grasped at her consciousness from the far reaches of her mind.

### Meet Venice Mariot

Venice Mariot was a unique girl, whose looks had gotten her far in life. But, to most, it was not her looks but her name. She was the daughter of a wealthy hotel chain owner, and while interested in celebrity, she also had a particular chip on her shoulder. She was, as her third grade tutor had put it, a smartypants who annoyed to no end. 

In high school, she was a fair student, A's and B's, but could've gone to any school. Her father, after all, was quick with a checkbook. She chose a state school as her horrified mother looked on, dumbfounded. Her classmates knew who she was, of course; everyone knew who she was. On Friday night, her phone would ring, and they'd hear:

"No, Paris, I think I'll stay in tonight."

"Sorry Miley, I've got a big test tomorrow."

Despite shenanigans and the usual partying, undergrad was boring...until she took that one class: the class that forever caused her eyes to light up: Machine Learning 101. She was hooked, and she let the world know about it. When she came home, it was deep learning this, and support vector machines that. This went on, publishing her first academic article as an undergraduate and pursuing a Ph.D., with her thesis being one of few professors actually read and passed around.

Academics aside, during her studies, there was a single moment that struck her. One day at a conference, a Japanese student approached her. He was slightly awkward, making Venice look more skeptical.

"Great, I haven't been hit on in a while....well, I guess there was that thing this morning...," she thought.

Then he spoke, "Ah Mariot Miss Venice? Ah yes. Ah, I like read your paper on ... robust fast 2nd moment approximation for the gradient descent," as he bowed excessively. "Ah I always think Advisor Clem is very famous to get good research papers."

At first she couldn't explain why she was elated. After all, the guy say *Advisor Clem* is very famous and not her. Was it that he liked her work? A few moments after addressing his questions, she started to think about it. It was the last interaction that was supposed to anger her that caused the opposite reaction. "Advisor Clem is very famous." He had no idea who she was. The daughter of the great George Mariot was acknowledged, perhaps for the first unequivocal time, for her contributions and not for the name Mariot.

After graduation, she received offers, but decided against the larger companies that swept talent up through the weight of their money. After taking several trips to Silicon Valley, she felt lost and retreated to her home, jobless. It was a defining moment for her, the first in which she felt lost. It was then that the bonds of blood showed their metal in the form of her father.

### The Great George Mariot

George Mariot prided himself on recognizing value in deals. He always said that he knew gold when he came across it. That ability came about through effort, and George worked hard to get where he was. But he'd always worked for himself, which granted, was rewarded by being able to pay for anything his children wanted. He would have paid for Venice's entrance pop star career or her own clothing line, but she wanted neither. It was only until after Venice refused an MIT or Stanford education via a Mariot charitable donation that he began to realize that his problems until now have been solved exclusively with money. Venice's independence made George realize that, like his businesses, effort and time were more valuable.

It was two days after her 29th birthday, and Venice sat in the living room, ignoring texts that suggested she come out and party. After her return from SFO where she'd interviewed with three small startups, she felt dejected after realizing all three were ad-tech companies waiting to be bought out by a larger ad-tech company. She scooped out strawberry ice cream from the container with her fingers when her father found her.

George sat down with several financial report printouts, which she would later find out were quite old. "Hmm, I'm not sure why we're flagging on sales." 

Rolling her eyes, "I don't know why you don't have all those things in a database, Dad. It'd make things so searchable."

"You know me, old school," he said, smiling as he started making a mess by scattering them on the couch.

"Ugh, it's so painful watching you," she sighed. "How bad is it, anyway?"

"Well, we opened up this hotel here, and it's doing horribly. I thought it'd do well because Steve Wynn bought in the area."

Venice stood up and hovered over the scattered sheets of paper, "Not sure if that's the right feature to use, Dad."

"Feature? What do you mean, Venice? Is this some of that fancy math talk that you've been going on about? That stuff never works."

Gauntlet thrown, as George smiled to himself. In the days that followed, she applied her knowledge of nonlinear regression and modeling to statistically analyze where to build next and which features were the most useful in doing so. In the year that followed, the applied mathematician and businessman worked side-by-side. Slowly both independent personalities had come to realize that they depended on each other. That fateful day, more than money and talk, Venice had needed guidance. Perhaps it is how all sons and daughters continue the business, but to George, this felt right. He felt that he uncovered some secret in the philosophy of life. It wasn't just that feeling useful and being applied could be a vaccine against sex tapes and scandals, a trap her counterparts invariably fell into. It was that focus and hard work could also apply to *people* as well as business.

Mariot sales had indeed been flagging, but that was stemmed a few months after Venice offered her suggestions. As soon as six months later, Venice's statistical analysis had strategically positioned the Mariot Hotel Chain for purchases in a few of the most profitable locations in the world. The Mariots even a opened lower tier, longer stay residences in disadvantaged areas under different branding (the *Care Housing* line), which Venice began to oversee.

Her father's confidence in her instilled pride and kindness, which she never forgot. Her compassion was often manifested in charity for those living in hotels under duress. Mariot's Care Line paid for itself as an organization as long-term residents were guided by Mariot programs trained with algorithms that analyzed best life-decisions through reinforcement learning techniques. With Venice's models, accounting for violence and crime was the most difficult random variable but it was feasible. The models, however, did not account for the situation she found herself in. Venic

She would pay for rent for those who were struggling, but also provided guidance to selected families that needed it. 

As she Senator Johnston 

She paid for the family. She went out, and found support. That many happened to be in the state senate, which angered her. Her father immediately withdrew support as a major donor. Go ahead, he smiled. "Do...everything."

comment this out -- Not surprising, most of them did not realize the connection to her more famous counterparts (many of whom had become pop stars, and some of whom were scandalized with sextapes), had thought her peers from her prior life to be from another world, one they would never, or more to the point, *could* never gain admission to.

comment this out -- Engineers have always done well. Angela Merkels in Germany. Deng Xiao Ping was an engineer, and grew the economy. Unfortunately, in the United States, representation of. In Congress, there were no economists, no scientists. It became a platform.

George Mariot died of cancer a few years later with Venice by his side. It hit her hard, and she couldn't bring herself to visit his grave for a long while. Still, she talked to him regularly before bed every night...more frequently when things got rough. After a meeting where easy concepts were "mansplained" to her, she recalled sitting in the lady's room looking up at the ceiling asking for advice. After a while, she took a deep breath, counted to three, and prepared for a fight as the bathroom stall door flew open.

It would be fifteen years later when Venice would first stop by his grave. "I miss you, Dad. I wish you could have seen what I've done." He knew, of course. Maybe not the specifics, but he'd known for a while...even before he sat next to her after her 29th birthday. He always said he could recognize gold when he came across it.

### Final Preparations

Back at the podium, she looked up from her note cards and took a breath...slowly. One. Two. Three. She'd worked hard to get to where she was, something unexpected of many from her echelon. Just then, the moderator, Chris Wallace, called her opponent to the stage, an equally famous brand, though his rise engendered from reality TV and real estate. Her heart skipped beats as he waved at the crowd. And then...just then, she heard her name announced as she stepped out from behind the curtains. She was ready for the 3rd debate for the most unconventional campaign season ever to have graced the United States landscape,  

Like the story? Tweet [here](http://twitter.com/karl_ni).
