---
layout: post-fun
title: On the Radio
description: "Everytime I change the radio station, something in the world changes..."
categories: shortstory
permalink: /2017/02/24/2017-02-24-Radio.html
comments: false
published: true
date: 2017-02-24
---

or rather, the world itself is different slightly...in that it is an entirely different world. Sorry, let me back up. My name's Jake, and I am, I think, a first year graduate student at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute studying quantum mechanics. Why the "I think" you ask. Right, well, I inherited a radio on my 23rd birthday. It was originally tuned to 93.1, and there was a note on top:

----
Understanding is the journey to knowledge. To most, it is unattainable because it lies behind closed doors. This is your key. Enjoy your journey. 
- Pop-Pop
----

I thought nothing of it until a few days later when I turned the channel a couple of notches to the right. I didn't notice anything different at first. No music; the thing is busted. Shrug. I just started doing some homework. 

A couple of hours later, I stepped outside to stretch my legs...and everything was different. My house was the same, but I was surrounded by older high-rise apartments. I could barely breathe because the pollution was almost unbearable. The roads and streets were sparse with a few people in a rush, all of whom were wearing masks. It all could have been in some urban US area, except that everyone looked Asian.

Someone bumped me, and I apologized with an "excuse me, sorry." He turned around with bewildered eyes like he'd just seen an alien. Then, he shouted something in what sounded like Chinese, and others stopped to stare at the spectacle. Feeling pretty uncomfortable because everyone started to approach me, I decided it was time to high-tail it out of there and run back into my house.

I slammed the door and looked through the peephole. Whew, no one followed me. What was going on? What happened? After a few moments of this unanswerable line of questioning, I backtracked all the things that I'd done before deciding to take that fateful stroll. My hastily came up with a plan to go back and forth between my bedroom and outside, experimenting with what I can remember doing in my bedroom. I reached the conclusion pretty quickly that the culprit was my radio. My radio had sent me to a different world. After slipping it back to 93.1, I was relieved as much as I'd ever been to step outside to a sunny Saturday morning in upstate New York.

Technically, my little excursion to an alternate reality was also upstate New York. You see, in quantum mechanics, there's this interpretation that says that whatever can happen does happen. It's just that they happen on different worlds. Say that I decide to have ice cream. There's an entirely different world out there where I decided against it. And that's something called the "many worlds/universes interpretation", or MWI as theorists like to put it. Apparently, my grandfather's radio was a way to bridge the gap between worlds, and the FM channels index them somehow. I'm sure it's an arbitrary indexing, seeing as how 93.5 KOIT probably means nothing to polluted Earth Asian guys.

Over the next few months, I experimented with the dial on the radio. Sometimes the world that I opened my door to destroyed my perception of the possible. Other times, I felt sorry for that world's inhabitants. And still other times, I couldn't tell the difference from our world. In every case, the one constant was my house, and I was always the only one who ever inhabited it. That is, all of worlds except for the one indexed by channel 106.5 FM.

Last night, after taking a break from physics homework, I slowly turned the radio knob, click by click, to 106.5. I had been documenting each one of the worlds in a notebook, trying to find a pattern between them. While reaching for my notebook this time, all the hairs on my body instantly rose and stiffened. What was that? Quiet, Jake. Listen.

Someone was breathing heavily and hard like they had asthma. I looked toward my closed door. The lights outside were off. I swore that I had turned them on before I had started studying. "Why are they off," I whispered underneath my breath.




