---
layout: post-no-feature
title: The Moon in Boston
description: "Memory and Inflection Points"
categories: articles
comments: true
date: 2015-12-03
tags: [software]
---

Dear You,

Three weeks before I met you, during my first winter in Boston, I had just moved. One of the few things I looked forward to was when one my friends would visit, and also when I'd be introduced to you. The other thing I had to look forward to was flying home for Christmas. A third thing I was excited about....well....was nothing....

In 2009, my work involved RADAR calibration, which is done by pointing some optic system towards known star constellations. Needless to say, that meant I had to stay at work pretty late in order to catch the night time stars. The guy who I sat next to was an astronomer-aspirant, and he loved the stuff. I actually was somewhat interested, but he would tend to monologue after we finished experiments. That meant the drive home was consistently late at night on icy roads, where my bed...as well as the anxiety of knowing that an early morning of pre-dawn science, awaited.

The specific event I remember begins by not being able to park near my apartment because the snow bank leading up to it was too high. This was all at around 1AM. My XTerra, which had seen more salt in its first Bostonian month than in its entire life, made the rounds looking for non-towing areas. After parking far from my apartment, slipping on the ice a couple of times, I stepped in some fresh snow ... with tennis shoes. I didn't at the time, but now I can almost hear myself say, "F this noise, I'm out. First thing tomorrow!"

So, imagine your first time truly away in a city with no friends. Remember being colder than you've ever been in your life and double that. Then, let's say that someone you've dated for forever and recently broken up with is now seeing someone else; this you learned via Facebook. And then, try to feel the snow slowly melt to soak into your socks...the wetness seeping around your feet, the cold permeating to your toes, which are numb already.

But you look up! ...and this is one of the only memories I have of that time. The moon: it's large and round. And it's white. Not yellowish, not off-white, but bright fluorescent white if there is such a color. The sky has a light blue tint surrounding it, growing darker while creeping towards the horizon, and the branches of the bare trees reach toward the moon, poking holes into its craters. Snow is still lightly falling, particles brilliantly reflecting off street lamps and moon beams. A beautiful night. 

Things slow down, and even now, all I can remember is the image in my mind, probably more glorious than it actually was. All that other stuff, so trivial; so small. This one moment, I'll remember. And I miss it now.

If you take your entire life and try to describe it...what defines it, you're left with little moments like these. Inflection points. Life's chapter markers, or at the very least, summaries of swaths of time painted to be more splendid than reality. Without moments like these, your life isn't about memories...it's about history. And that's less interesting.

For me, the history that followed in the Boston chapter was about making new friends, old friends moving into town, people visiting, many weddings, one funeral...and of course I met you. I had ups and downs, mostly feeling the ups afterwards, the downs during. But before that: the memory of a moon that filled half the sky, of a starless blue sky with snowflakes floating down, and of me and my white breath into the night, smiling.

Always your friend,
Karl
